The advantage of using the command line is its power. You can run programs, write scripts to automate common tasks, and combine simple commands to handle difficult tasks - making it an important programming tool.

The command line is a text interface for the computer's operating system. To access the command line, we use the terminal.
A filesystem organizes a computer's files and directories into a tree structure. It starts with the root directory. Each parent directory can contain more child directories and files.
From the command line, you can navigate through files and folders on your computer:
pwd outputs the name of the current working directory.
ls lists all files and directories in the working directory.
cd switches you into the directory you specify.
mkdir creates a new directory in the working directory.
touch creates a new file inside the working directory.

Options modify the behavior of commands:
ls -a lists all contents of a directory, including hidden files and directories
ls -l lists all contents in long format
ls -t orders files and directories by the time they were last modified
Multiple options can be used together, like ls -alt
From the command line, you can also copy, move, and remove files and directories:
cp copies files
mv moves and renames files
rm removes files
rm -r removes directories
Wildcards are useful for selecting groups of files and directories

Redirection reroutes standard input, standard output, and standard error.
The common redirection commands are:

> redirects standard output of a command to a file, overwriting previous content.
>> redirects standard output of a command to a file, appending new content to old content.
< redirects standard input to a command.
| redirects standard output of a command to another command.
A number of other commands are powerful when combined with redirection commands:

sort: sorts lines of text alphabetically.
uniq: filters duplicate, adjacent lines of text.
grep: searches for a text pattern and outputs it.
sed : searches for a text pattern, modifies it, and outputs it.

=========================

$  This is called a shell prompt. It appears when the terminal is ready to accept a command.
ls  When you type ls, the command line looks at the folder you are in, and then "lists" the files and folders inside it.
pwd  stands for "print working directory". It outputs the name of the directory you are currently in, called the working directory.
cd  stands for "change directory". cd switches you into the directory you specify. To move up one directory, use cd ..
mkdir The mkdir command stands for "make directory". It takes in a directory name as an argument, and then creates a new directory in the current working directory.
touch command creates a new file inside the working directory. It takes in a filename as an argument, and then creates an empty file in the current working directory.

Options modify the behavior of commands.
-a - lists all contents, including hidden files and directories
-l - lists all contents of a directory in long format
-t - order files and directories by the time they were last modified.
In addition to using each option separately, like ls -a or ls -l, multiple options can be used together, like ls -alt.

The cp command copies files or directories. 
wildcards. The * selects all files in the working directory,
To rename a file, use mv with the old file as the first argument and the new file as the second argument. 
The rm command deletes files and directories.
The -r stands for "recursive," and it's used to delete a directory and all of its child directories.










